# CodeBook

## Functions

1. get.data function: receives a directory and the name of the data set (train or test). It then creates all the file paths and loads the raw data. After that, labels are applied and the different data sets are put together.
2. cleanData function: calls get.data for both train and test data sets and merges them together. The cleanData function then extracts the mean and std for each measurement and renames the labels with more descriptive names. Lastly, it creates a new and independent data set with the average of each measurement for each activity and each subject. 
3. createDataSet  function: calls cleanData function and writes a file called "sensor_avg.txt" with the data set generated by the cleanData function.

## Variables

- allData: data set with the train and test data sets merged.
- dataSet: data set only with the mean and std measurements and with descriptive labels.
- cleanData: the clean and tidy data set.

## Transformations

1. Bind test data, subjects and activities. Add labels, make them valid, and a test type column.
2. Repeat the procedure #1 for the train data set.
3. Merge test and train data sets.
4. Extract only mean and std columns for each measurement.
5. Use descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set using the join command.
6. Make substitutions to add more descriptive names to labels.
7. Create a new and independent data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.
8. Writes the data from the data set of step 7 to a new txt file.
